{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red25\green25\blue25;\red255\green24\blue43;\red56\green110\blue255;
}
\vieww37900\viewh20880\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 From: Raul Tempone <rtempone@gmail.com>\
Subject: new wind data from Uruguay with proper normalization and adjustment of the initial point\
Date: April 3, 2017 at 6:44:50 PM GMT+3\
To: Evangelia Kalligiannaki <evangelia.kalligiannaki@kaust.edu.sa>, soumaya elkantassi <soumaya.elkantassi@gmail.com>, Soumaya Elkantassi <soumaya.kantassi@kaust.edu.sa>\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Dear both,\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs32 \cf2 In the attached zip file you can find the data that we were promised.\
\
The important files are four:\
\
Sal_gahas_h72_2016_130317_norm_asim.txt\
Sal_mtlog_h72_2016_130317_norm_asim.txt\
Sal_utep3_h72_2016_130317_norm_asim.txt\
Sal_uter1_2016_130317_iniper_norm.txt\
\
They correspond to the forecasts of Garrand Hassam, Meteorological, UTE / IMFIA and the actual data of wind power. For each day four forecasts are generated at 72 hours, one every six hours, specifically at: 01:00, 7:00, 13:00 and 19:00.\
\
Our uruguayan contact has left the data cleansed in two senses. First, they are normalized by the total installed power, i.e., the power data is always expressed as a fraction [0,1] between power and installed capacity. \cf3 Whenever possible, they ran the power assimilation algorithm, to "paste" the forecast time series, to the initial condition. \cf2 I understand that it was not possible between September 15 and 20, 2016.\
\
In addition to the forecast itself (POTP), companies add a band of confidence. We do not know how Garrand Hassam and Meteorological calculate it. In the case of the IMFIA, it arises from a sensitivity analysis in the initial condition (disturbing the initial condition, obtaining 60 trajectories, and taking the upper and lower envelopes). I imagine that this data will not be used in our computations, but they left it because it is interesting to compare against it. .
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs32 \cf2 \
Please let me know if you have questions.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 \
\
All the best\
Raul\
-- \
------------------------------\
R. Tempone, PhD\
Professor of Applied Mathematics;\
Division of Mathematics & Computational Sciences & Engineering (CEMSE)\
Building #1 (UN 1550), Office No 4109, Level 4\
4700 King Abdullah University of Science and Technology\
Thuwal 23955-6900, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.stochastic_numerics.kaust.edu.sa/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 http://www.stochastic_numerics.kaust.edu.sa}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.kaust.edu.sa/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 http://www.kaust.edu.sa}}\
------------------------------\
}