The solar generation data analyzed correspond to the 366 days of the year 2016.
The total power generated was recorded hourly and these quantities were
normalized by the total installed power1, so that the data take values
between 0 and 1. The values ​​of the series correspond to the energy generated in 2016 by
3 photovoltaic farms, the characteristics of which are listed in the following table

Photovoltaic Farm Installed Power (MW) Operative
Raditon    		 8 	todo el 2016
La Jacinta   		50 	todo el 2016
Alto Cielo 		20	 desde el 1/03/2016

Table 1: Data of the photovoltaic plants considered for the analysis


It is observed that up to March 2016 the installed solar power is 58 MW and
from March to December rises to 78 MW.
In the sections that follow, some basic statistics of the whole
of data expressed in terms of plant factor.

1. Given the permanent increase in photovoltaic power installed in the country, this power varies in the not considered a


2. Daily plant factor

\mu_ D = 0;216 \sigmaD = 0;098

Table 2: Mean and dispersion of the daily solar plant factor

It is observed that the average plant factor of 21% is very good for this source
of energy. The following table shows the evolution of the daily plant factor
over the year considered.

Daily Solar Plant Factor

Figure 1.

It can be observed that in the autumn and winter there is a significant reduction
of the daily production of solar energy.


3. Plant factor hour


Table 3: Mean and dispersion of plant factor of the solar generation hour by hour.

In Fig. 2, the average plant factor is followed by an hourly time

The recorded data show the typical bell shape of the generation curve
photovoltaic, with zero values ​​during the hours without sun and reaching its peak of
power generated in the midday hours.

4. Plant factor by season of the year

In order to detect and take into account any seasonal effects
power generated, we calculate the averages and dispersions in the 4 seasons of the year


Table 4: Mean and dispersion of the solar plant factor according to a season of the year


It is necessary that the summer and spring seasons have very
similar, both in mean value and dispersion, and are the stations with the highest level
photovoltaic production. In turn, the behavior of the
and winter is very similar between s, and in those months 30% less than
solar generation than in spring or summer.
Shown below are the average values ​​and time scales
for summer and winter seasons.

Table 5. Mean and dispersion of plant factor of solar generation hourly
in summer.

Table 6: Mean and dispersion of plant factor of solar generation hourly
in winter.

It is observed that in a mid-summer d is generated 19% more energy than in
the average annual day, and in a mid-winter of 19% less energy than in the
average annual day. Also the dispersions are 20% smaller in both seasons
than the dispersion of the total data set.
The following table shows the plant floor factors for all
the days of summer and winter, and are also recorded in their respective average values
schedules

Figure 3: Solar plant factors schedules for Summer and Winter.

It is observed that there are a few days of winter in which for hours of noon
plant factors close to unity, but the number of such factors is
significantly lower than for the summer, which explains the appreciable difference
in the mean solar generation curves of both seasons.
We also investigate seasonal seasonal dispersion in source generation
solar.

Total daily energy variation of the station is

\Delta^e = 1/r \sum_j=1^r |\sum t=1^24 (X_t^(j) - X_t^(0)) |

This dispersion measure compares the area under the curves of plant factors
stations of the station X (j) with the area corresponding to the curve of the plant factor
average daily of said station X (0), and averages those quantities.
The following table evaluates the dispersion measure in the solar generation for
the seasons of summer and winter. It also includes as a reference the value of the
average daily energy Ee of each station. All values ​​are normalized
with respect to the installed solar power.

Table 7: Dispersion of daily solar energy generated by a station

It is necessary that the relative dispersion in the daily energy generated in winter is of the
order twice as much as for summer days.

